Hector Mancilla netted the lone goal of the game as UANL Tigres won 1-0 at Pachuca, giving the squad a significant advantage heading into the second leg. Despite playing with a man advantage for the final half hour of the game, Pachuca rarely threatened the opposition goal.

Both teams were able to field near full-strength lineups, but Pachuca missed out on the services of center back Javier Muñoz Mustafa through suspension, meaning Horacio Cervantes got the start at the back.

Both sides started adventurously, with Tigres boosted in part by the sizable number of traveling fans that made the trip to Pachuca's Estadio Hidalgo. The away side had the better of the proceedings in the early part of the half, and Lucas Lobos went close in the 20th minute after picking up a through ball and shedding his marker, only to fire inches wide.

Tigres were rewarded for their persistence in the 26th minute, the goal coming from Mancilla, the team's leading scorer in the regular season. Damian Alvarez played a one-two with Lucas Lobos to break free in the area before centering to Mancilla, who tucked away the header.

Pachuca looked to peg the visitors back immediately and tested Tigres goalkeeper Enrique Palos with a pair of shots from distance, but couldn't get past him. The home side continued to apply pressure through the rest of the half, but Tigres survived to go into the break up 1-0.

After some slow opening minutes in the second half, the game came to life as Pachuca looked for an equalizer, and former America forward Enrique Esqueda was unlucky not to score in the 56th minute as his header from a Jaime Ayovi cross struck the post.

Tigres' task was made more difficult just after the hour mark as former Fulham left back Carlos Salcido saw a red card – the third in four playoff games – for a violent challenge on Felix Borja. The expulsion forced Tigres head coach Tuca Ferreti to make a change, replacing Mancilla with midfielder Jesus Dueñas.

Despite playing down a man, Tigres had the next clear chacne as Lucas Lobos whipped in a free kick, only to see bounce back off the post. On the other end, Pachuca struggled to put a shot on target despite playing with an extra man and trailing by a goal, and Tigres survived a late push to claim the only away victory in the first leg of quarterfinals.

The teams will meet again next Sunday at Tigres' Estadio Universitario to decide the second leg of the quarterfinal, with Tigres holding the tiebreaker in addition to their one goal advantage.